Great meeting you virtually today. Thanks for sending this through - I'll pass the link on to my brother for my nephew to do.

I'll also have a look through the questions when I have a chance.

I had a few more thoughts about how you could test the validity of your AI-generated report. If you wanted to really fine-tune it down the line, you could get a group of maybe 30 or more learners to test out the PickMyPath assessment and also:
Get the learners to complete the SAVII (South African Vocational Interest Inventory) online through MindConnect to see if the Holland codes match up
Have the learners undergo a full Grade 9 Subject Choice assessment (aptitude, interest, personality, values) including the SAVII and compare the recommendations for careers and subject choices with the PickMyPath results
Get Grade 9 teacher(s) to write down the subjects they would recommend for every Grade 9 learner in their school based on what they know of their learners and compare the recommended subjects to the PickMyPath results
Partner with an NGO that does their own Subject Choice assessments and compare their results with yours - there's an NGO that I work with who does this. It might be one of the quickest (and cheapest) ways to test your results against another assessment, and benefit teens from under-resourced areas in the process. Let you know if you're interested and I can put you in contact with the NGO director.
If you have a big enough sample size, you could do statistical analysis down the line to back up your product - I have a friend who might be able to help with this if you're interested as his company focuses on data analysis and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).

I forgot to mention that my husband is a high school teacher at a remedial school - he can ask the Principal when they're back next term if some of their kids would be keen to try out PickMyPath. 

Another consideration for PickMyPath is to ask questions related to learning difficulties or neurodivergence (ADHD, autism, dyslexia, etc) in your initial biographical questionnaire as that might affect career recommendations. 

Those are my ideas for now! Will keep you updated.

Have a great day,
Jo